---
layout: post
title: "Simpler machine learning models for predicting non-trivial equivalent mutants"

---

The state-of-the-art method for predicting non-trivial equivalent mutants is a hard-to-interpret model with 1073 features. We proposed an interpretable model consisting of only 4 features. The proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art method in terms of prediction accuracy and interpretability.

Mutation testing is a powerful method used in software testing to support several activities,such as guidance for test case generation, test suite quality assessment and test suite optimization. Decades of research have shown the method's powerfulness compared to almost all other testing criteria. However, the method has its challenges as well. Mutation testing tools generate several equivalent mutants, which waste resources unnecessarily and threaten the mutation score validity. Unfortunately, identifying equivalent mutants is an undecidable problem and requires manual analysis. On the positive side, various papers proposed methods to partially address the issue, but the main problem is open. To better understand the nature of equivalent mutants, this paper focuses on identifying the equivalent mutants produced by the recently developed mutation testing tool MART. In this regard, we propose an interpretable model capable of predicting non-trivial equivalent mutants comparable to the state-of-the-art method. In particular, the state-of-the-art method is a hard-to-interpret model with 1073 features. On the other hand, our proposed method consists of only 4 interpretable features and reached the AUC value of 89.02%, outperforming the state-of-the-art, which reached the AUC value of 88.38% on the Codeflaws dataset.

**Language(s):** English

**Authors:** Taha Rostami

**Published in:** The Journal of Systems & Software, Submitted

[**URL**](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4358867)

**Keywords:** <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Software testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Mutation testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Equivalent mutants</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Interpretability</span>

