---
layout: post
title: "Short Communication: Two Proposals for Future Research in Mutation Testing"

---

In this short communication, we propose two directions for future research that could have significant impacts on mutation testing. Specifically, we aim to investigate the use of reinforcement learning and pre-trained models to improve the efficiency and validity of mutation testing.

In this short communication, we propose two directions for future research that could have significant impacts on mutation testing. Specifically, we aim to investigate the use of reinforcement learning and pre-trained models to improve the efficiency and validity of mutation testing. To achieve our objectives, we propose two approaches. The first approach involves using a reinforcement learning agent to learn the utility of different actions within the context of the entire mutant matrix. By doing so, we can maximize utility not only in the current state but also throughout the process. The second approach involves learning a general representation of mutants using pre-trained models that can be fine-tuned for specific needs in a way that an alternative approach for labeling the data is proposed. Our proposed approaches hold great promise for making mutation testing more accessible and effective for large-scale software systems. We hope that this short communication will inspire further research into the use of reinforcement learning and pre-trained models in mutation testing and encourage the exploration of alternative labeling approaches.

**Language(s):** English

**Authors:** Taha Rostami, Saeed Jalili

**Published in:** Information and Software Technology, Submitted

[**URL**](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4358867)

**Keywords:** <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Software testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Mutation testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Semi-supervised learning</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Reinforcement learning </span>

