---
layout: post
title: "Effective Prediction of Valuable Mutants through Fine-tuning the UniXcoder Pre-trained Model"

---

We investigated the applicability of using a pre-trained model named UniXcoder in the context of mutation testing. In particular, we gathered a dataset named Py3Codeforces, fine-tuned UniXcoder to predict different categories of useful mutants, and conducted the experimental study. According to experimental results, UniXcoder-based models outperform baselines concerning mutant subset selection and mutant prioritization problems.

Mutation testing is a powerful method used in software testing and beyond to support several activities,
such as guidance for test case generation and test suite quality assessment. However, most mutants
generated by mutation testing tools are unrelated to real faults, which wastes time and resources
unnecessarily. Recent papers consistently reported that using machine-learning-based approaches to select
useful mutants could mitigate this problem successfully. However, machine learning models deviate over
time, so their accuracy significantly decreases. Consequently, gathering a new dataset and re-training the
model might be inevitable whenever the model deviates. Unfortunately, gathering a new high-quality, large
scale and reliably labelled dataset is too expensive in code-based mutation testing, where usually all
programs and mutants must execute on the CPU. To mitigate this challenge, we investigated the
applicability of using a pre-trained model named UniXcoder in the context of mutation testing. Suppose
UniXcoder-based models would be helpful in mutation testing applications. In that case, robustness against
the drift concept and reduction in the data volume needed for training and re-training the models will be
achieved. With this regard, this paper gathered a dataset named Py3Codeforces, fine-tuned UniXcoder to
predict different categories of useful mutants, and conducted the experimental study. According to
experimental results, UniXcoder-based models outperform baselines concerning mutant subset selection
and mutant prioritization problems.

**Language(s):** English

**Authors:** Taha Rostami, Saeed Jalili

**Published in:** Software: Practice and Experience, Submitted

[**URL**](https://github.com/TahaRostami/MuPy3Codeforces)

**Keywords:** <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Software testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Mutation testing</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Transfer learning</span> <span class="w3-tag w3-round w3-center">Pre-trained models</span>
